[All hosts](NAA) Reorg to recommend NAA SSO (#5570)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/develop/authorize-to-microsoft-graph.md

﻿---
title: Authorize to Microsoft Graph with legacy Office SSO
description: Learn how users of an Office Add-in can use legacy Office single sign-on (SSO) to fetch data from Microsoft Graph.
ms.date: 05/25/2025
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Authorize to Microsoft Graph with legacy Office SSO

> [!NOTE]

> > This article is about using legacy Office SSO. We recommend using the Microsoft Authorization Library (MSAL) with nested app authentication (NAA) which supports the SPA authorization workflow. MSAL and NAA also offer a more modern experience across more platforms. For more information, see [Enable single sign-on in an Office Add-in with nested app authentication](enable-nested-app-authentication-in-your-add-in.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This article is about using legacy Office SSO. Use the Microsoft Authorization Library (MSAL) with nested app authentication (NAA) which supports the SPA authorization workflow. MSAL and NAA also offer a more modern experience across more platforms. For more information, see [Enable single sign-on in an Office Add-in with nested app authentication](enable-nested-app-authentication-in-your-add-in.md).
```

> [!NOTE]
> The request for consent with `{ allowConsentPrompt: true }` could still fail even for the `profile` scope if the administrator has turned off end-user consent. For more information, see [Configure how end-users consent to applications](/entra/identity/enterprise-apps/configure-user-consent).

> Your code can, and should, handle this error by falling back to an alternate system of authentication, which prompts the user for consent to Microsoft Graph scopes. For code examples, see [Create a Node.js Office Add-in that uses single sign-on](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Office-Add-in-samples/tree/main/Samples/auth/Office-Add-in-NodeJS-SSO) and [Create an ASP.NET Office Add-in that uses single sign-on](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Office-Add-in-samples/tree/main/Samples/auth/Office-Add-in-ASPNET-SSO) and the samples they link to. The entire process requires multiple round trips to the Microsoft identity platform. To avoid this performance penalty, include the `forMSGraphAccess` option in the call of `getAccessToken`; for example, `OfficeRuntime.auth.getAccessToken( { forMSGraphAccess: true } )`. This signals to Office that your add-in needs Microsoft Graph scopes. Office will ask the Microsoft identity platform to verify that consent to Microsoft Graph scopes has already been granted to the add-in. If it has, the access token is returned. If it hasn't, then the call of `getAccessToken` returns error 13012. Your code can handle this error by falling back to an alternate system of authentication immediately, without making a doomed attempt to exchange tokens with the Microsoft identity platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your code can handle this error by falling back to an alternate system of authentication that prompts the user to grant consent for Microsoft Graph scopes. For examples, see [Create a Node.js Office Add-in that uses single sign-on](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Office-Add-in-samples/tree/main/Samples/auth/Office-Add-in-NodeJS-SSO) and [Create an ASP.NET Office Add-in that uses single sign-on](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Office-Add-in-samples/tree/main/Samples/auth/Office-Add-in-ASPNET-SSO) and the samples they link to.
This flow can involve multiple round trips to the Microsoft identity platform. To reduce the performance impact, include the `forMSGraphAccess` option when calling `getAccessToken`; for example, `OfficeRuntime.auth.getAccessToken( { forMSGraphAccess: true } )`. This option indicates that your add-in requires Microsoft Graph scopes. Office will ask the Microsoft identity platform to determine whether consent has already been granted. If consent exists, the access token is returned. If not, `getAccessToken` returns error **13012**. Your code can handle this error by falling back to an alternate system of authentication immediately, without attempting to exchange tokens with the Microsoft identity platform.
```

As a best practice, always pass `forMSGraphAccess` to `getAccessToken` when your add-in will be distributed in Microsoft Marketplace and needs Microsoft Graph scopes.

> ## Details on Office leacy SSO with an Outlook add-in

Author: ```suggestion
## Details on Office legacy SSO with an Outlook add-in
```
